Introduction: Cloudcomputing is a set of forms that contain certain elements that allows for on-demand, network access, 
  scalability, and shared resources.  
  It's a platform for managing, storing, and processing data online through the internet.
  - it is cloud offerring from microsoft 
  - operates in 17 regions around the world   

  Chanracteristic of cloud computing: 
      self-service - 
      resources are pooled across multiple customers - multiple users 
      Elasticity - scale out and scale in
      Reliability - zore down time
      utility modeled services - 
  
  Some of the cloud computing features include the following:
    - On-Demand Services – Available when you need it
    - Network Access – When using the internet as your medium
    - Shared Resources – All resources are gathered together and used by multiple customers
    - Scalability -  The ability of a computer system to adapt to increasing demands
 
 Categories of cloud services: 
      SAAS: software depolyed over the internet. 
            we will use the services directly.          
            eg. 365, google plus, 
            a. SaaS is a software delivery methodology that provides licensed multi-tenant access to software and its functions remotely as a Web-based service.
            b. From end user’s point of view apps are located in the cloud and it is almost always accessible through a web browser. 
            c. Any application hosted on a remote server that can be accessed over the Internet is considered as SaaS. 
            d. Usually billed based on usage and a multi-tenant environment.
            e. Ex: Microsoft Azure, Gmail, Google Apps (Office like features), Sales Force CRM

      PAAS: for rapid software development, 
            we don't need to buy and maintain software and underlying infrastructure
            you only care about your code
            the patching and update, patching, runtime are done by the provider          
            a. Provides developer's necessary tools to create, test, host and maintain created applications. 
            b. Cloud providers offer an Internet-based platform to developers who create services but don't want to build their own cloud. 
            c. database services, storage serveces, network as a service 

      IAAS: server, storage, network, OS on-demand 
            we are buying hardware from the provider: provisoning the required hardware to install our software. 
            We have to take care of everything 
            a. Delivers computer infrastructure, typically a platform virtualization environment as a service. 
            b. Cloud providers build datacenters, managing power, scale, hardware, networking, storage, distributed systems, etc…
            B. we have take care of the data, patching, upgrade, security patche, middlewavre, runtime
            c. Rather than purchasing servers, software, data center space or network equipment,clients instead buy those resources as a fully outsourced service. 


  
  
